is it possible to create something out
of nothing or more precisely can energy
be made into matter yes but only when it
comes together with its twin antimatter
and there's something pretty mysterious
about antimatter there's way less of it
out there than there should be
let's start with the most famous physics
formula ever e equals MC squared it
basically says that mass is concentrated
energy and mass and energy are
exchangeable like two currencies with a
huge exchange rate 90 trillion Joule of
energy are equivalent to one gram of
mass but how do I actually transform
energy into matter the magic word is
energy density
if you concentrate a huge amount of
energy in a tiny space new particles
will come into existence if we look
closer we see that these particles
always come in pairs like twins
that's because particles always have a
counterpart an anti particle and these
are always produced in exactly equal
amounts 50/50 this might sound like
science fiction but it's the daily life
at particle accelerators in the
collisions between two protons at CERN's
Large Hadron Collider billions of
particles and unter particles are
produced every second consider for
example the electron it has a very small
mass and negative electric charge it's
anti particle the positron has exactly
the same mass but a positive electric
charge but apart from the opposite
charges both particles are identical and
perfectly stable and the same is true
for the heavy cousins the proton and the
antiproton therefore scientists are
convinced that the world made of
antimatter would look feel and smell
just like our world in this entire world
we may find anti water anti gold and for
example an anti marble now imagine that
the marble in an anti marble abroad
together these two
apparently solid objects would
completely disappear into a big flash of
energy equivalent to an atomic bomb
because combining matter and antimatter
would create so much energy science
fiction is full of ideas about
harnessing the energy stored in
antimatter for example to fuel
spaceships like Star Trek
after all the energy content of
antimatter is billion times higher than
conventional fuel the energy of one gram
of antimatter would be enough for
driving a car a thousand times around
the earth or to bring the Space Shuttle
into orbit so why don't we use
antimatter for energy production
well antimatter isn't just sitting
around ready for us to harvest we have
to make antimatter before we can combust
antimatter and it takes a billion times
more energy to make antimatter then you
get back but what if there was some
antimatter in outer space and we could
dig it out one day from an anti planet
somewhere a few decades ago many
scientists believe that this could
actually be possible today observations
have shown that there is no significant
amount of antimatter anywhere in the
visual universe which is weird because
like we said before there should be just
as much antimatter as there's matter in
the universe since anti particles and
particles should exist in equal numbers
this missing antimatter now that is a
real mystery to understand what might be
happening we must go back to the Big
Bang in the instant the universe was
created the huge amount of energy was
transformed into mass and our initial
universe contained equal amounts of
matter and antimatter but just the
second later most matter and all of the
antimatter had destroyed one another
producing an enormous amount of
radiation that can still be observed
today just about 100 millions of the
original amount of metal stuck around in
no antimatter whatsoever
now wait you might say why did all the
antimatter disappear and only matter was
left it seems that we were somehow lucky
that
tiny asymmetry exists between matter and
antimatter otherwise there would be no
particles at all anywhere in the
universe and also no human beings but
what causes this asymmetry experiments
at CERN are trying to find out the
reason why something exists and why we
don't live in the universe filled with
radiation only but so far we just don't
know the answer
you